Documentation for operator privileges (#68964)
elastic/elasticsearch: x-pack/docs/en/security/operator-privileges/operator-only-snapshot-and-restore.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="enterprise"]
[[operator-only-snapshot-and-restore]]
=== Operator Privileges and Snapshot/Restore
The invocation of <<operator-only-apis>> and update of <<operator-only-dynamic-cluster-settings>>

> result changes in the cluster state, which can be <<snapshot-restore,snapshot and restored>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
typically result in changes in the cluster state. This cluster state may be included in a  cluster <<snapshot-restore,snapshot>>.
```

Restoring snapshot data associated to <<operator-only-functionality,operator-only functionality>>

> is problematic because:

Reviewer: I think we want to rethink this sentence. It's not problematic, because we made it do the right thing.

I think you want to restructure this whole section to say:
- We do this
- Because the infrastructure owners want this
- So we avoid this bad stuff

Author: You are right. It reads a bit negative for the restore process which isn't true. I reworded a bit and added some context.

1. A snapshot could contain wrong values for operator-only functionalities. Restore them
   could break the cluster.
2. Even if we could correct the values immediately after the restore, there will always be
   a short time period where cluster could be in an inconsistent state.
3. We prefer configure operator-only functionality from a single place, i.e. through API calls.

Therefore, <<configure-operator-privileges,*when the feature of operator privileges is enabled*>>,

> snapshot data associated to any operator-only functionality are *not* restored.

Author: This is not yet true for autoscaling policies, which currently do not get restored regardless whether operator privileges are enabled or not. However, I do not want to go into this difference here because this will be the ultimate behaviour that we want once Cloud enables operator privileges.

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="enterprise"]
[[operator-only-snapshot-and-restore]]
=== Operator privileges for snapshot and restore

include::operator-privileges-designed-for-note.asciidoc[]

Invoking <<operator-only-apis,operator-only APIs>> or updating
<<operator-only-dynamic-cluster-settings,operator-only dynamic cluster settings>>
typically results in changes in the cluster state. The cluster state can be
included in a cluster <<snapshot-restore,snapshot>>. Snapshots are a great way
to preserve the data of a cluster, which can later be restored to bootstrap a
new cluster, perform migration, or disaster recovery, for example. In a
traditional self-managed environment, the intention is for the restore process
to copy the entire cluster state over when requested. However, in a more
managed environment, such as {ess-trial}[{ess}], data that is associated with
<<operator-only-functionality,operator-only functionality>> is explicitly
managed by the infrastructure code.

Restoring snapshot data associated with

> <<operator-only-functionality,operator-only functionality>> could be problematic

Reviewer 2: While doing a final review, I noticed that we already have this link in the previous paragraph.  I don't think it's worth repeating the link:
```suggestion
operator-only functionality could be problematic
```
